---
layout: page
title: Research
---

## Translation
Molecular biology's central dogma holds that biological information travels unilaterally by a series of steps referred to as replication, transcription, and finally, translation. In general, translation involves synthesising peptide chains from mRNA to create proteins that are essential for the cell's function. When the cell's protein levels are out of balance, a rate-limiting stage known as translation initiation is triggered as the cell's way of regulating its protein levels. In nature, we witness a few ways in which the cell's natural translational machinery is hijacked, leading to alterations of protein activity and mRNA structure which can then affect overall protein synthesis. As a result, this can lead to harmful effects on the cell, causing decreased responsiveness to stress and other cellular signals. Examples of these sorts of hijackers include viruses found in both mammals and plants. To prevent such things from taking control of the cell and its translational machinery, we aim to understand the structure of its machines.  Because these machines are dynamic in nature, we use specialised microscopes to capture images of their movement. These cryo-EM methods allow us to achieve near-atomic as well as atomic resolution for dynamic protein complexes. In capturing the images of the cell's translational machinery, we seek to be able to track the conformational changes to the structure.  The hope is that this will allow us to gain clearer insight into the regulatory processes the cell utilises to maintain control over its machinery and its generation of proteins.

## Membrane
In short, we seek to understand the flux of chemicals that go in and out of a cell.

Membranes are comprised of two primary components: proteins and lipids. Most proteins act as gateways to the cell, allowing for the entering and exiting of chemicals such as calcium, potassium, and sodium ions. Any disruptions of this flux can lead to devastating consequences for the cell, in most cases leading to diseases and ultimately the death of the cell.  To prevent such disastrous outcomes, we focus on capturing the dynamic motion of these gateways, which helps us track conformational changes throughout their work cycle. Our experimental approach allows us to generate images of the protein while in its natural environment, meaning the proteins and the lipids are both included in the images. The general consensus around lipids holds that when gateways perform their functions, lipids adjust themselves by shrinking or squeezing to complement the changes of the gateway. It is possible that the changes of the surface area of the lipids may also play an important role in the movement of chemicals.

All of this information promises to help us to recreate the conformations of the protein as it performs its functions. An understanding of how gateways function may lead to the development of medicines to correct undesirable mutations and impediments in natural functioning.
